and I would straight up and look you in
the face and tell you that binge
drinking probably has less of an impact
in playing video games
my name is well and I'm an ex gamer with
30 years of gaming experience and now I
will tell you exactly what will happen
if you follow the path of gaming the
reason why video games are going to stop
you from being successful is not the
games itself because for the longest
time I've thought to myself hey you know
I can just play video games in the
weekend or I can play it when the two
hours when I get done with work no
that's not how it works you can't play
them at all at first you will not notice
that anything is wrong because you're
being provided for by your family you
have plenty of free time and furious
possibilities and your interest concern
mainly fun and entertainment and
probably you think that this carefree
life will last forever now you young
gamers eight years old 12 years old 16
years old listen time will go by and it
will go by fast I'm sure you've seen a
person play World of Warcraft for 12 14
hours straight but then they can't sit
down and learn something new that will
improve their lives immensely and
they'll keep playing World of Warcraft
even when they know it's hurting their
lives and actually making their lives
worse how your brains works as it's
always going to be trying to figure out
problems that it believes are going to
give it dopamine releases and it's gonna
sit there and work on those problems
when you're in the shower it's gonna sit
there and work on those problems when
you're going to bed it's gonna work on
those problems when you're not even
thinking about your problems and your
subconscious have you ever done
something for a hard time worked really
really hard on it then you stop for two
days and then you had a brilliant more
creative strategy just come to you
naturally your brain is always working
and gnaw on the problems you present to
it so if you're playing video games your
brain doesn't have context doesn't
realize you're sitting in front of a
computer screen playing World of
Warcraft it says ah the thing you're
doing right here this is the most
satisfying thing you could ever do in
your life this is the best place we can
get ones so we're gonna optimize for
this how can we optimize to be better at
this and maximize one and so what's
gonna do if you've ever played World of
Warcraft
do you've ever played anybody game
you're addicted to you know that when
you put the controller down
you're still thinking about it for about
two to three hours and then throughout
the week if you're at work it's still
thinking about the back your head when
you're in the shower you're thinking
about mom how can I get that next epic
item in uh molten core I can tell you
this I tried to play Wow classic I'm
sitting around constantly in the shower
thinking about how to get my warlock
shoulders from molten core to increase
my base stats you see how the stur being
that is because first off my brain is
completely focused on problem-solving
around a problem will bring nothing to
my life when you set a specific time
when you plan to stop playing video game
and start doing something important for
you and very often you can decide well
I'll just finish this moment I just I
will just complete this process this
specific time passes by and at this
moment you break your promise I'm sure
you've probably beaten the video game
which you invested months into and then
it gives you nothing I remember when I
beat breath of the wild I was riding
around in the motorcycle to end after I
don't know like 150 hours 200 hours
invested and I'm like this is this is it
and I turned off my switch and had
nothing to show for it and so that's why
you can't play video games it hijacks
your subconscious it hijacks your
thinking discipline is not a constant
William it can grow when you keep your
promises made to yourself or it becomes
weaker every time you break your
promises if you're going out and
partying all time at least during the
week you're only thinking about business
you're not gonna be thinking about
partying 24/7 if you like to eat cake
all the time you'll eat cake and you're
done with it if you like watching tons
of TV at least when you turn the TV off
you're probably not sitting around
thinking about Family Guy 24/7 video
games is one of the few things you could
ever do that will be more engaging than
anything you can do in life and
simulates accomplishment simulates
growth in a way that gives your brain
massive ones and your brain can't see
the context and it makes you think about
it all the time initially I see myself
being a kid who was full of bright
dreams hopes and expectations who wanted
to make good
world but was not aware of the
consequences and chose their own path
the path of game
don't make my mistakes don't let this
virtual world deceive you don't waste
your time on illusions and if for some
reason you chose the wrong path get back
on the right track with video games
aside and get back on your way to
freedom once upon a time I lived and
worked in China i sat there and I had a
conversation with a complete stranger
a white Canadian who had himself been
living and working in China for many
years the experience of going from
poverty in Canada to success and
relative affluence in China effects the
male ego in a peculiar way the effect of
going from being small in Canada to
being tall in China could affect the
male ego in a peculiar way and a lot of
these guys it's very difficult for them
to find a girlfriend when they were in
Canada and their sex lives changed a
great deal once they arrived in China
along with the success and all these
other factors and this tends to seep
into their ego and their worldview in a
strange way and they end up even saying
things to justify the mass murder of
millions of people by the Chinese
Communist Party there's no simple
cause-and-effect relationship there but
if you have lived and worked in China
you will have encountered this again and
again these white guys take on strangely
pro-china attitudes because of the sense
in which their own masculinity their own
virility their own success everything
they value about life has been given to
them in some sense by Chinese society or
even by I guess the government of China
this guy said to me well he set out for
me in Bree
his rationalization as to why the murder
of millions of people didn't quite
particularly matter in this case way
that he knows it should with me toes it
does in a way he wouldn't make this
excuse for any other government anywhere
else of the world's but this one he
wouldn't even make this accuse with the
Government of Canada um and he knew that
in saying this to me he knew he was
saying it to another sophisticated
expatriate with a scholarly character
who had studied the history
he knew he was saying to someone who
could fight back
someone who could talk about someone who
could argue it out on the base of the
facts but that's not how I replied
that's not how I responded no I looked
him straight in the eye and quite
self-confident I said to him yes but the
thing is so what and it had a huge
impact and he sat there because he
already knows the facts already he
already knows not even on a deeper
replace repressed level he knows he's
lying he knows he's lying to himself he
knows he's like me this is somehow a
performance he's cultivated over years
and that's all I had to say to him I
mean I could even act out how he reacted
physically he looked at me he looked
down the floor his shoulders slumped he
said yes yes that's right isn't it and
there was silence and there was
reconsideration and you know the
conversation did go on but he really
took a moment just to hold up all these
rationalizations and excuses he had for
mass murder and history the common
history of communism in general as
opposed to the challenge of so what it's
a challenge coming for someone who could
fight um fact by fact but someone who's
not even going to write and we live in
an era when people think they have
friends because what they have is
digital and
and what they have is distraction
blinking lights glowing screens
keyboards and what they don't have is
someone in their life who can sit down
with them and hear their excuses and
then say to them oh yeah it's pretty
good excuse you got there but but tell
me so tell me one thing
so what it's not an experience you can
ever have by email all right I have now
confronted innumerable people over the
Internet both about their video game
habit and about their excuses for their
rationalizations of their video game
habit and what's impossible to do what's
no matter how hard I try whether it's by
email by discord conversation however
they reach out to me over I reach out to
them however we communicate and you know
I'll just mention a lot of these people
do send me abusive insulting hateful
messages some of them uh post on the
internet some of them have some
instructive value some of them some
entertaining but but the the insulting
entertaining side of it put to one side
what's so hard to do is just to get them
to pause and consider seriously what
they themselves have said to me you know
what I don't even have to refute what
you're saying here I just I just need to
get you to listen to so I need to get
you I need to get you to think through
the implications of the excuses that
you're giving me one of the most common
responses has been for video game
addicts or video game players to write
back to me and say quote if you're
opposed to playing video games you must
just be totally opposed to the enjoyment
of life
stop really think about the implications
of the fact that you made that leap of
inference I've had people tell me like
self-confident they're convinced this oh
well if you're against playing video
games you must be against going to the
gym and lifting weights if you're
against playing video games you must be
against having sex with your girlfriend
no no I've had people even stretch it
and say let go well if you're against
sitting at a keyboard and playing video
games for six hours you must be against
sitting and writing a novel or writing
you heart of biography at a keyboard no
and it's not this isn't really about the
fact that no I'm not against writing a
novel but my personal view on this is
trivial question can you get someone to
stop and pause and reflect how is it
that you at your end if you're saying
this mean how is it that you came to so
totally subsume any possible enjoyment
of life in this category called video
games to such an extent that it's
inconceivable to you that I would be
specifically criticized in video games
how is it possible that you would
conflate this search to say well oh if
you don't enjoy video games how can you
possibly enjoy sex how can you enjoy
exercise how can you enjoy creativity or
anybody do you yourself not see the
unbelievable red flag here about the
role videogames have taken in your life
I had one guy writing to me
III think he was lying about this he
wrote to me at some length and with
passion and he was insulting me and he
wrote to me saying that he only plays
video games for ten hours a week I doubt
that's true
he claims he only plays video games for
ten hours a week and he just said that
he felt so insulted that I would tell
him to give this up for a joyless
existence
he said a lot more about how insulted he
was and what a terrible person I am
today or to come out here and put
forward this argument that you really
should as an adult
quicklime James but it's like what I try
to she's asking can you just stop and
hear the words that you have can you
just stop and question if you only do
this for ten hours a week but maybe it's
40 hours it could how is it that on this
really deep level in your mind you think
that this is the only joy in your life
that if you quit this you would have a
joyless existence can't you see how
profoundly disturbing that is the
assumptions you're working from and then
your your total refusal to see the
conclusion I'm driving at where you'll
you'll imagine any possible argument to
replace the very clear very argument
very obvious argument that I really am
presenting you'd rather believe that I'm
against sex that I'm against any kind of
enjoyment
you'd rather generalize this an abstract
on the point and invade the point you'd
rather do anything then face up to the
reality of what video games already are
for you in your life and how in fact the
arguments that you're presenting to me
they only make it more clear that yes it
is going to have a profound impact on
you it is gonna have an impact on you in
a way that breaking up with your
girlfriend wouldn't if you have a
girlfriend that quitting your job would
it you know because you don't think of
the ten hours a week you spend with your
girlfriend that's both beat you in your
life you don't think of the forty hours
a week you spend at your job as the only
joy in your life
you actually think of these so-called
ten hours a week you spend playing video
games as the meaning the purpose the joy
in your life and this same guy wrote to
me at length he was so hurt he's so
offended did I tell him with good
intentions I want him to live a better
life and want to live a more meaningful
if he's so hurt by this argument against
video
games that he says I and anyone like me
who would encourage you to instead do
research and humanitarian that I'm an
elitist that I'm arguing on behalf of an
elitist agenda again like there's
there's no way to have this meaningful
interaction through a keyboard or
through a screen just like that guy I
met in China and challenging him on his
excuses for mass murder genocide
whatever II want to say that that
challenge had to be face to face
it had to be man-to-man if you like okay
there's no way across the keyboard I can
get someone to recognize just how deeply
absurd it is that you're calling me an
elitist
because I'm saying to you hey if you're
positively motivated if you do the work
you can become a better person through
learning through research and you can
make the world a better place through
humanitarian work through vaulting
through all kinds of positive things you
can do this you can aspire to do
something better to be someone better
alright and the fact that you conceive
of that as elitist whereas you for your
part supposedly represent the people the
masses the poor are you are you putting
me in the circle you're putting me in
the role of opressing the poor like it's
really really deeply perverse but the
most perverse of our beliefs without
exception are arguments and excuses that
we adopted so early in life that we
became committed to in our childhood
such that there are neither irrational
nor irrational they are pretty rational
in any confrontation with them as adults
any questioning of it is obviously going
to bring on a kind of unbelief
psychological anguish all my life I've
been surrounded by people who made
excuses for male circumcision for
cutting off part of the skin of the
penis that deprives you of about 60% of
the nerve endings they would never make
these excuses for cutting off part of
your hand that deprives you of 60% of
the turf endings in your hand
they'd never make these excuses for
removing 60% of the nerve endings in
your eye or your ear no it's this one
operation it's this one organ and of
course it's linked to religion and
history and it's 16 all these things and
you know if there's this deep deep deep
commitment it's deeper than the
distinction between rational and
irrational it's pretty rational don't
want to question they don't want to
believe there's any possibility that
this is something bad that this is
something that means they're broken
that's exactly what it is there's good
news about video games
you can stop being broken today you can
start being a better person tomorrow
you can never get back the time that
you've lost but at least I can say you
haven't suffered any brain damage you
haven't suffered a concussion you
haven't lost the nerve endings in your
hand or your ear or your eye or anywhere
else but what you're gonna have to do is
challenge yourself to reexamine
these really deep assumptions about the
meaning of your life and the motivation
that leads you to choose reality over
fantasy not just once not just when you
wake up in the morning but moment to
moment day after day after day to take
responsibility instead of shirking
responsibility to engage with and learn
things even if they're painful and
harrowing and disturbing you even if
they're inconvenient for your ego to
embrace those challenges and yes yes you
all in plain English to be a real man
which sometimes is humiliating and
sometimes is disappointing and you can't
just hit the reset button and there are
no extra lives and right it's one thing
to learn that you're no good at a
particular video game because you can
try another one and you can buy another
one and it's another thing to learn that
you're really just not very good at
being an adult and it's the hardest
thing of all to have the discipline not
to allow yourself to retreat into a
second childhood
[Music]